OK now that we have a menu item and our shop page what we're going to build is our header.
We need an easier way to navigate between our pages and we want to build this component in such a way
so that it's always present no matter what page we navigate to.
Now we want to do it in such a way that we don't have to put header on every single page component that
we have.
But that's really easy with react ruder Dom.
Now before I show you that let's just build the header component.
Now let's go back to our application and let's create a header component in our header component.
We are going to have the usual suspects.
We need a header component Dutch ASX and a header styles dot SAS and in our header component we're going
to import react from react and we're going to import our style sheet in
our header component is going to be a functional component and it's going to have a div that contains
our header code and this code is going to resemble pretty much exactly what we see.
So it's just going to be an outer container.
This group of option links that we have over here that will be contained in that group option link container
and then a logo.
So what we're going to add here is a class name of header and then we are going to create our logo.
So our logo will link to the home page.
When you click it and the way we do that is we import in link from react.
Writer Dom
and now we will just put link with the two pointing to our home page about
and we do want to use our actual icon but I've provided that for us in the format of an SPG and SPG
icons are essentially scalable vector graphics which are really small really performance.
But look the same no matter how large or how small that image is expanded.
And that's really great and I have that for us right here.
So you can just copy it from the file that I have provided in this lesson.
Now what we're gonna do is we're gonna make a new folder in our source called assets and in it we are
just going to paste OK and you'll see a bunch of code that actually represents the Crown SPG but in
our header we're just going to import this into our component and we're going to import from assets
slash crown as Fiji.
And what we're gonna write is react component as logo because it's not a J.S. exe file.
We don't actually set the import.
We're just importing in this SPG as this react component keyword.
But we're setting it to the logo keyword and by doing this we are now able to place it right here and
we can also give it the class name logo and our class name for our link will be logo container because
we want that container to have some style on it as well now our options will be held in their own individual
options container and they will also be links and they will point to our shop and have the class name
and inside this first one will be our shop.
And then our second one will be contact
and then we just export it out and we just bring this into our app J.S.
once we import this in
opponents header header component all we have to do is just place this header outside of the switch
and the routes that contain all of our page components.
Because by doing this our header is always present and rendered despite whatever rack router Dom switch
component and root components decide to render onto the page.
And this is really great because if we had say pop ups or overlays or footers that we were always wanting
to display in our application or at least be on the page regardless of what path the user is on we would
just do it like this.
And this is really really awesome because this makes our app very intuitive.
It looks very composed.
Because we know all of our pages exist here and our header exists outside of this switch OK.
Now if we go to our application we'll see that we have what looks like the header.
Just no styling it.
So let's write the styles.
Now I do have them actually written already.
Our header which is the containing div has a width of one hundred percent and a height of 70 pixels.
We set a display flex so that when we put justified content space between the children inside of this
parent.
So our logo container and the options will be pushed apart as far as possible with any remaining space
that they don't themselves don't take up.
As far as the width is concerned so there's a margin bottom that pushes our pages twenty five pixels
down from anything below the header and then our logo container just has a width of 70 pixels whereas
our options has a width of 50 percent so it always takes a 50 percent of whatever with the header is
and they align everything centred and they're always on the Flex and so justify content flex end means
that we want to always set them so that they are on the most right side of the component so they're
on the end of the actual flex box and then our options have some minor padding so that they are not
so grouped together.
And now if we look at our code we see that are Crown takes us to the home our shop takes us the shop
and we have a very basic version of our header setup.
We haven't out of the contact page yet but we will do that at the very end.
What we should do though is we should modify our link tags that we use as our options to not have this
underline or this purple colour that comes with an A tag.
Now even though it's a link component if we inspect it we see that what gets rendered Is this a tag
right.
This native a tag so we know that reaction ruder Dom actually modifies the a tag and then gives it the
functionality inside of itself to do the behaviour.
So in order to do that we have to actually modify our access and we can do this right here by sending
text decoration to none and the colour to black.
We could just target selectively the link itself inside of our header component by targeting say anything
with a class name of option but we want it so that none of our aid tags actually have this text declaration
because we will probably never use a native a tag.
So if we save we will see that it is now updated.
OK now the last thing we need to do is just commit our code before we finish styling our header because
in the next section we will be including our sign in page and our sign and button.
So let's go back to our terminal.
Let's see what we have so we'll just add our code adding header component and links to home the shop
page and and then we'll just give origin master OK.
Now let's build that sign in.